https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32324287/
32324287
Plants forage soil for water and nutrients, whose distribution is patchy and often dynamic. To improve their foraging activities, plants have evolved mechanisms to modify the physicochemical properties and microbial communities of the rhizosphere, i.e. the soil compartment under the influence of the roots. This dynamic interplay in root-soil-microbiome interactions creates emerging properties that impact plant nutrition and health. As a consequence, the rhizosphere can be considered an extended root phenotype, a manifestation of the effects of plant genes on their environment inside and/or outside of the organism. Here, we review current understanding of how plants shape the rhizosphere and the benefits it confers to plant fitness. We discuss future research challenges and how applying their solutions in crops will enable us to harvest the benefits of the extended root phenotype.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31586158/
31586158
The soil microbiome governs biogeochemical cycling of macronutrients, micronutrients and other elements vital for the growth of plants and animal life. Understanding and predicting the impact of climate change on soil microbiomes and the ecosystem services they provide present a grand challenge and major opportunity as we direct our research efforts towards one of the most pressing problems facing our planet. In this Review, we explore the current state of knowledge about the impacts of climate change on soil microorganisms in different climate-sensitive soil ecosystems, as well as potential ways that soil microorganisms can be harnessed to help mitigate the negative consequences of climate change.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34074032/
34074032
Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are beneficial soil microorganisms that can stimulate plant growth and increase tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Some PGPR are capable of secreting exopolysaccharides (EPS) to protect themselves and, consequently, their plant hosts against environmental fluctuations and other abiotic stresses such as drought, salinity, or heavy metal pollution. This review focuses on the enhancement of plant abiotic stress tolerance by bacterial EPS. We provide a comprehensive summary of the mechanisms through EPS to alleviate plant abiotic stress tolerance, including salinity, drought, temperature, and heavy metal toxicity. Finally, we discuss how these abiotic stresses may affect bacterial EPS production and its role during plant-microbe interactions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29375600/
29375600
Root-associated bacterial communities play a vital role in maintaining health of the plant host. These communities exist in complex relationships, where composition and abundance of community members is dependent on a number of factors such as local soil chemistry, plant genotype and phenotype, and perturbations in the surrounding abiotic environment. One common perturbation, drought, has been shown to have drastic effects on bacterial communities, yet little is understood about the underlying causes behind observed shifts in microbial abundance. As drought may affect root bacterial communities both directly by modulating moisture availability, as well as indirectly by altering soil chemistry and plant phenotypes, we provide a synthesis of observed trends in recent studies and discuss possible directions for future research that we hope will provide for more knowledgeable predictions about community responses to future drought events.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20635180/
20635180
Drying and rewetting is a frequent physiological stress for soil microbial communities; a stress that is predicted to grow more influential with future climate change. We investigated the effect of repeated drying-rewetting cycles on bacterial (leucine incorporation) and fungal (acetate in ergosterol incorporation) growth, on the biomass concentration and composition (PLFA), and on the soil respiration. Using different plant material amendments, we generated soils with different initial fungal:bacterial compositions that we exposed to 6-10 repetitions of a drying-rewetting cycle. Drying-rewetting decreased bacterial growth while fungal growth remained unaffected, resulting in an elevated fungal:bacterial growth ratio. This effect was found irrespective of the initial fungal:bacterial biomass ratio. Many drying-rewetting cycles did not, however, affect the fungal:bacterial growth ratio compared to few cycles. The biomass response of the microbial community differed from the growth response, with fungal and total biomass only being slightly negatively affected by the repeated drying-rewetting. The discrepancy between growth- and biomass-based assessments underscores that microbial responses to perturbations might previously have been misrepresented with biomass-based assessments. In light of this, many aspects of environmental microbial ecology may need to be revisited with attention to what measure of the microbial community is relevant to study.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23823489/
23823489
The microbial response to summer desiccation reflects adaptation strategies, setting the stage for a large rainfall-induced soil CO2 pulse upon rewetting, an important component of the ecosystem carbon budget. In three California annual grasslands, the present (DNA-based) and potentially active (RNA-based) soil bacterial and fungal communities were tracked over a summer season and in response to controlled rewetting of intact soil cores. Phylogenetic marker genes for bacterial (16S) and fungal (28S) RNA and DNA were sequenced, and the abundances of these genes and transcripts were measured. Although bacterial community composition differed among sites, all sites shared a similar response pattern of the present and potentially active bacterial community to dry-down and wet-up. In contrast, the fungal community was not detectably different among sites, and was largely unaffected by dry-down, showing marked resistance to dessication. The potentially active bacterial community changed significantly as summer dry-down progressed, then returned to pre-dry-down composition within several hours of rewetting, displaying spectacular resilience. Upon rewetting, transcript copies of bacterial rpoB genes increased consistently, reflecting rapid activity resumption. Acidobacteria and Actinobacteria were the most abundant phyla present and potentially active, and showed the largest changes in relative abundance. The relative increase (Actinobacteria) and decrease (Acidobacteria) with dry-down, and the reverse responses to rewetting reflected a differential response, which was conserved at the phylum level and consistent across sites. These contrasting desiccation-related bacterial life-strategies suggest that predicted changes in precipitation patterns may affect soil nutrient and carbon cycling by differentially impacting activity patterns of microbial communities.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28515880/
28515880
Understanding crop resilience to environmental stress is critical in predicting the consequences of global climate change for agricultural systems worldwide, but to date studies addressing crop resiliency have focused primarily on plant physiological and molecular responses. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) form mutualisms with many crop species, and these relationships are key in mitigating the effects of abiotic stress in many agricultural systems. However, to date there is little research examining whether (1) fungal community structure in agroecosystems is resistant to changing environmental conditions, specifically water limitation and (2) resilience of fungal community structure is moderated by agricultural management systems, namely the integration of trees into cropping systems. Here, we address these uncertainties through a rainfall reduction field experiment that manipulated short-term water availability in a soybean-based (Glycine max L. Merr.) agroforest in Southern Ontario, Canada. We employed terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis to determine the molecular diversity of both general fungal and AMF communities in soybean roots under no stress, stress (rainfall shelters added), and poststress (rainfall shelters removed). We found that general fungal and AMF communities sampled from soybean roots were resistant to rainfall reduction in a monoculture, but not in an agroforest. While AMF communities were unchanged after stress removal, general fungal communities were significantly different poststress in the agroforest, indicating a capacity for resiliency. Our study indicates that generalist fungi and AMF are responsive to changes in environmental conditions and that agroecosystem management plays a key role in the resistance and resilience of fungal communities to water limitation.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28476769/
28476769
Bacteria and fungi are important mediators of biogeochemical processes and play essential roles in the establishment of plant communities, which makes knowledge about their recovery after extreme disturbances valuable for understanding ecosystem development. However, broad ecological differences between bacterial and fungal organisms, such as growth rates, stress tolerance, and substrate utilization, suggest they could follow distinct trajectories and show contrasting dynamics during recovery. In this study, we analyzed both the intra-annual variability and decade-scale recovery of bacterial and fungal communities in a chronosequence of reclaimed mined soils using next-generation sequencing to quantify their abundance, richness, β-diversity, taxonomic composition, and cooccurrence network properties. Bacterial communities shifted gradually, with overlapping β-diversity patterns across chronosequence ages, while shifts in fungal communities were more distinct among different ages. In addition, the magnitude of intra-annual variability in bacterial β-diversity was comparable to the changes across decades of chronosequence age, while fungal communities changed minimally across months. Finally, the complexity of bacterial cooccurrence networks increased with chronosequence age, while fungal networks did not show clear age-related trends. We hypothesize that these contrasting dynamics of bacteria and fungi in the chronosequence result from (i) higher growth rates for bacteria, leading to higher intra-annual variability; (ii) higher tolerance to environmental changes for fungi; and (iii) stronger influence of vegetation on fungal communities.IMPORTANCE Both bacteria and fungi play essential roles in ecosystem functions, and information about their recovery after extreme disturbances is important for understanding whole-ecosystem development. Given their many differences in phenotype, phylogeny, and life history, a comparison of different bacterial and fungal recovery patterns improves the understanding of how different components of the soil microbiota respond to ecosystem recovery. In this study, we highlight key differences between soil bacteria and fungi during the restoration of reclaimed mine soils in the form of long-term diversity patterns, intra-annual variability, and potential interaction networks. Cooccurrence networks revealed increasingly complex bacterial community interactions during recovery, in contrast to much simpler and more isolated fungal network patterns. This study compares bacterial and fungal cooccurrence networks and reveals cooccurrences persisting through successional ages.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28753209/
28753209
Root endophytes have been shown to have important roles in determining host fitness under periods of drought stress, and yet the effect of drought on the broader root endosphere bacterial community remains largely uncharacterized. In this study, we present phylogenetic profiles of bacterial communities associated with drought-treated root and rhizosphere tissues of 18 species of plants with varying degrees of drought tolerance belonging to the Poaceae family, including important crop plants. Through 16S rRNA gene profiling across two distinct watering regimes and two developmental time points, we demonstrate that there is a strong correlation between host phylogenetic distance and the microbiome dissimilarity within root tissues, and that drought weakens this correlation by inducing conserved shifts in bacterial community composition. We identify a significant enrichment in a wide variety of Actinobacteria during drought within the roots of all hosts, and demonstrate that this enrichment is higher within the root than it is in the surrounding environments. Furthermore, we show that this observed enrichment is the result of an absolute increase in Actinobacterial abundance and that previously hypothesized mechanisms for observed enrichments in Actinobacteria in drought-treated soils are unlikely to fully account for the phenomena observed here within the plant root.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29666229/
29666229
Drought stress is a major obstacle to crop productivity, and the severity and frequency of drought are expected to increase in the coming century. Certain root-associated bacteria have been shown to mitigate the negative effects of drought stress on plant growth, and manipulation of the crop microbiome is an emerging strategy for overcoming drought stress in agricultural systems, yet the effect of drought on the development of the root microbiome is poorly understood. Through 16S rRNA amplicon and metatranscriptome sequencing, as well as root metabolomics, we demonstrate that drought delays the development of the early sorghum root microbiome and causes increased abundance and activity of monoderm bacteria, which lack an outer cell membrane and contain thick cell walls. Our data suggest that altered plant metabolism and increased activity of bacterial ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter genes are correlated with these shifts in community composition. Finally, inoculation experiments with monoderm isolates indicate that increased colonization of the root during drought can positively impact plant growth. Collectively, these results demonstrate the role that drought plays in restructuring the root microbiome and highlight the importance of temporal sampling when studying plant-associated microbiomes.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29358405/
29358405
Across plants and animals, host-associated microbial communities play fundamental roles in host nutrition, development, and immunity. The factors that shape host-microbiome interactions are poorly understood, yet essential for understanding the evolution and ecology of these symbioses. Plant roots assemble two distinct microbial compartments from surrounding soil: the rhizosphere (microbes surrounding roots) and the endosphere (microbes within roots). Root-associated microbes were key for the evolution of land plants and underlie fundamental ecosystem processes. However, it is largely unknown how plant evolution has shaped root microbial communities, and in turn, how these microbes affect plant ecology, such as the ability to mitigate biotic and abiotic stressors. Here we show that variation among 30 angiosperm species, which have diverged for up to 140 million years, affects root bacterial diversity and composition. Greater similarity in root microbiomes between hosts leads to negative effects on plant performance through soil feedback, with specific microbial taxa in the endosphere and rhizosphere potentially affecting competitive interactions among plant species. Drought also shifts the composition of root microbiomes, most notably by increasing the relative abundance of the Actinobacteria. However, this drought response varies across host plant species, and host-specific changes in the relative abundance of endosphere Streptomyces are associated with host drought tolerance. Our results emphasize the causes of variation in root microbiomes and their ecological importance for plant performance in response to biotic and abiotic stressors.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28720730/
28720730
Plant roots support complex microbial communities that can influence plant growth, nutrition, and health. While extensive characterizations of the composition and spatial compartmentalization of these communities have been performed in different plant species, there is relatively little known about the impact of abiotic stresses on the root microbiota. Here, we have used rice as a model to explore the responses of root microbiomes to drought stress. Using four distinct genotypes, grown in soils from three different fields, we tracked the drought-induced changes in microbial composition in the rhizosphere (the soil immediately surrounding the root), the endosphere (the root interior), and unplanted soils. Drought significantly altered the overall bacterial and fungal compositions of all three communities, with the endosphere and rhizosphere compartments showing the greatest divergence from well-watered controls. The overall response of the bacterial microbiota to drought stress was taxonomically consistent across soils and cultivars and was primarily driven by an enrichment of multiple Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi, as well as a depletion of several Acidobacteria and Deltaproteobacteria While there was some overlap in the changes observed in the rhizosphere and endosphere communities, several drought-responsive taxa were compartment specific, a pattern likely arising from preexisting compositional differences, as well as plant-mediated processes affecting individual compartments. These results reveal that drought stress, in addition to its well-characterized effects on plant physiology, also results in restructuring of root microbial communities and suggest the possibility that constituents of the altered plant microbiota might contribute to plant survival under extreme environmental conditions.IMPORTANCE With the likelihood that changes in global climate will adversely affect crop yields, the potential role of microbial communities in enhancing plant performance makes it important to elucidate the responses of plant microbiomes to environmental variation. By detailed characterization of the effect of drought stress on the root-associated microbiota of the crop plant rice, we show that the rhizosphere and endosphere communities undergo major compositional changes that involve shifts in the relative abundances of a taxonomically diverse set of bacteria in response to drought. These drought-responsive microbes, in particular those enriched under water deficit conditions, could potentially benefit the plant as they could contribute to tolerance to drought and other abiotic stresses, as well as provide protection from opportunistic infection by pathogenic microbes. The identification and future isolation of microbes that promote plant tolerance to drought could potentially be used to mitigate crop losses arising from adverse shifts in climate.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32547572/
32547572
Efforts to boost crop yield and meet global food demands while striving to reach sustainability goals are hindered by the increasingly severe impacts of abiotic stress, such as drought. One strategy for alleviating drought stress in crops is to utilize root-associated bacteria, yet knowledge concerning the relationship between plant hosts and their microbiomes during drought remain under-studied. One broad pattern that has recently been reported in a variety of monocot and dicot species from both native and agricultural environments, is the enrichment of Actinobacteria within the drought-stressed root microbiome. In order to better understand the causes of this phenomenon, we performed a series of experiments in millet plants to explore the roles of drought severity, drought localization, and root development in provoking Actinobacteria enrichment within the root endosphere. Through 16S rRNA amplicon-based sequencing, we demonstrate that the degree of drought is correlated with levels of Actinobacterial enrichment in four species of millet. Additionally, we demonstrate that the observed drought-induced enrichment of Actinobacteria occurs along the length of the root, but the response is localized to portions of the root experiencing drought. Finally, we demonstrate that Actinobacteria are depleted in the dead root tissue of Japanese millet, suggesting saprophytic activity is not the main cause of observed shifts in drought-treated root microbiome structure. Collectively, these results help narrow the list of potential causes of drought-induced Actinobacterial enrichment in plant roots by showing that enrichment is dependent upon localized drought responses but not root developmental stage or root death.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25605935/
25605935
Plants depend upon beneficial interactions between roots and microbes for nutrient availability, growth promotion, and disease suppression. High-throughput sequencing approaches have provided recent insights into root microbiomes, but our current understanding is still limited relative to animal microbiomes. Here we present a detailed characterization of the root-associated microbiomes of the crop plant rice by deep sequencing, using plants grown under controlled conditions as well as field cultivation at multiple sites. The spatial resolution of the study distinguished three root-associated compartments, the endosphere (root interior), rhizoplane (root surface), and rhizosphere (soil close to the root surface), each of which was found to harbor a distinct microbiome. Under controlled greenhouse conditions, microbiome composition varied with soil source and genotype. In field conditions, geographical location and cultivation practice, namely organic vs. conventional, were factors contributing to microbiome variation. Rice cultivation is a major source of global methane emissions, and methanogenic archaea could be detected in all spatial compartments of field-grown rice. The depth and scale of this study were used to build coabundance networks that revealed potential microbial consortia, some of which were involved in methane cycling. Dynamic changes observed during microbiome acquisition, as well as steady-state compositions of spatial compartments, support a multistep model for root microbiome assembly from soil wherein the rhizoplane plays a selective gating role. Similarities in the distribution of phyla in the root microbiomes of rice and other plants suggest that conclusions derived from this study might be generally applicable to land plants.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28232669/
28232669
Electron cryotomography (ECT) enables the 3D reconstruction of intact cells in a near-native state. Images produced by ECT have led to the proposal that an ancient sporulation-like event gave rise to the second membrane in diderm bacteria. Tomograms of sporulating monoderm and diderm bacterial cells show how sporulation can lead to the generation of diderm cells. Tomograms of Gram-negative and Gram-positive cell walls and purified sacculi suggest that they are more closely related than previously thought and support the hypothesis that they share a common origin. Mapping the distribution of cell envelope architectures onto a recent phylogenetic tree of life indicates that the diderm cell plan, and therefore the sporulation-like event that gave rise to it, must be very ancient. One explanation for this model is that during the cataclysmic transitions of the early Earth, cellular evolution may have gone through a bottleneck in which only spores survived, which implies that the last bacterial common ancestor was a spore.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21156806/
21156806
Eukaryotic organisms have developed diverse mechanisms for the acquisition of iron, which is required for their survival. Graminaceous plants use a chelation strategy. They secrete phytosiderophore compounds, which solubilize iron in the soil, and then take up the resulting iron-phytosiderophore complexes. Bacteria and mammals also secrete siderophores to acquire iron. Although phytosiderophore secretion is crucial for plant growth, its molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we show that the efflux of deoxymugineic acid, the primary phytosiderophore from rice and barley, involves the TOM1 and HvTOM1 genes, respectively. Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing TOM1 or HvTOM1 released (14)C-labeled deoxymugineic acid but not (14)C-labeled nicotianamine, a structural analog and biosynthetic precursor of deoxymugineic acid, indicating that the TOM1 and HvTOM1 proteins are the phytosiderophore efflux transporters. Under conditions of iron deficiency, rice and barley roots express high levels of TOM1 and HvTOM1, respectively, and the overexpression of these genes increased tolerance to iron deficiency. In rice roots, the efficiency of deoxymugineic acid secretion was enhanced by overexpression of TOM1 and decreased by its repression, providing further evidence that TOM1 encodes the efflux transporter of deoxymugineic acid. We have also identified two genes encoding efflux transporters of nicotianamine, ENA1 and ENA2. Our identification of phytosiderophore efflux transporters has revealed the final piece in the molecular machinery of iron acquisition in graminaceous plants.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28385337/
28385337
Iron is one of the most abundant elements in soils, but its low phytoavailability at high pH restricts plant communities on alkaline soils to taxa that have evolved efficient strategies to increase iron solubility. Recent evidence provides support for a previously underestimated role of root-secreted coumarins in mobilizing iron through reduction and chelation as part of an orchestrated strategy evolved to improve the acquisition of iron from recalcitrant pools. Understanding the mechanisms that tune the production of iron-mobilizing coumarins and their intricate interplay with other biosynthesis pathways could yield clues for deciphering the molecular basis of 'iron efficiency' - the ability of plants to thrive on soils with limited iron availability - and may open avenues for generating iron-fortified crops.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34294907/
34294907
Microbial symbioses can mitigate drought stress in crops but harnessing these beneficial interactions will require an in-depth understanding of root microbiome responses to drought cycles. Here, by detailed temporal characterization of root-associated microbiomes of rice plants during drought stress and recovery, we find that endosphere communities remained compositionally altered after rewatering, with prolonged droughts leading to decreased resilience. Several endospheric Actinobacteria were significantly enriched during drought and for weeks after rewatering. Notably, the most abundant endosphere taxon during this period was a Streptomyces, and a corresponding isolate promoted root growth. Additionally, drought stress disrupted the temporal dynamics of late-colonizing microorganisms, permanently altering the normal successional trends of root microbiota. These findings reveal that severe drought results in enduring impacts on rice root microbiomes, including enrichment of taxonomic groups that could shape the recovery response of the host, and have implications relevant to drought protection strategies using root microbiota.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29505170/
29505170
The effects of short-term drought on soil microbial communities remain largely unexplored, particularly at large scales and under field conditions. We used seven experimental sites from two continents (North America and Australia) to evaluate the impacts of imposed extreme drought on the abundance, community composition, richness, and function of soil bacterial and fungal communities. The sites encompassed different grassland ecosystems spanning a wide range of climatic and soil properties. Drought significantly altered the community composition of soil bacteria and, to a lesser extent, fungi in grasslands from two continents. The magnitude of the fungal community change was directly proportional to the precipitation gradient. This greater fungal sensitivity to drought at more mesic sites contrasts with the generally observed pattern of greater drought sensitivity of plant communities in more arid grasslands, suggesting that plant and microbial communities may respond differently along precipitation gradients. Actinobateria, and Chloroflexi, bacterial phyla typically dominant in dry environments, increased their relative abundance in response to drought, whereas Glomeromycetes, a fungal class regarded as widely symbiotic, decreased in relative abundance. The response of Chlamydiae and Tenericutes, two phyla of mostly pathogenic species, decreased and increased along the precipitation gradient, respectively. Soil enzyme activity consistently increased under drought, a response that was attributed to drought-induced changes in microbial community structure rather than to changes in abundance and diversity. Our results provide evidence that drought has a widespread effect on the assembly of microbial communities, one of the major drivers of soil function in terrestrial ecosystems. Such responses may have important implications for the provision of key ecosystem services, including nutrient cycling, and may result in the weakening of plant-microbial interactions and a greater incidence of certain soil-borne diseases.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30072764/
30072764
Soil microbial communities play a crucial role in ecosystem functioning, but it is unknown how co-occurrence networks within these communities respond to disturbances such as climate extremes. This represents an important knowledge gap because changes in microbial networks could have implications for their functioning and vulnerability to future disturbances. Here, we show in grassland mesocosms that drought promotes destabilising properties in soil bacterial, but not fungal, co-occurrence networks, and that changes in bacterial communities link more strongly to soil functioning during recovery than do changes in fungal communities. Moreover, we reveal that drought has a prolonged effect on bacterial communities and their co-occurrence networks via changes in vegetation composition and resultant reductions in soil moisture. Our results provide new insight in the mechanisms through which drought alters soil microbial communities with potential long-term consequences, including future plant community composition and the ability of aboveground and belowground communities to withstand future disturbances.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26284083/
26284083
The ongoing climate change is characterized by increased temperatures and altered precipitation patterns. In addition, there has been an increase in both the frequency and intensity of extreme climatic events such as drought. Episodes of drought induce a series of interconnected effects, all of which have the potential to alter the carbon balance of forest ecosystems profoundly at different scales of plant organization and ecosystem functioning. During recent years, considerable progress has been made in the understanding of how aboveground parts of trees respond to drought and how these responses affect carbon assimilation. In contrast, processes of belowground parts are relatively underrepresented in research on climate change. In this review, we describe current knowledge about responses of tree roots to drought. Tree roots are capable of responding to drought through a variety of strategies that enable them to avoid and tolerate stress. Responses include root biomass adjustments, anatomical alterations, and physiological acclimations. The molecular mechanisms underlying these responses are characterized to some extent, and involve stress signaling and the induction of numerous genes, leading to the activation of tolerance pathways. In addition, mycorrhizas seem to play important protective roles. The current knowledge compiled in this review supports the view that tree roots are well equipped to withstand drought situations and maintain morphological and physiological functions as long as possible. Further, the reviewed literature demonstrates the important role of tree roots in the functioning of forest ecosystems and highlights the need for more research in this emerging field.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20528987/
20528987
It is well known that beneficial plant-associated microorganisms may stimulate plant growth and enhance resistance to disease and abiotic stresses. The effects of climate change factors such as elevated CO(2), drought and warming on beneficial plant-microorganism interactions are increasingly being explored. This now makes it possible to test whether some general patterns occur and whether different groups of plant-associated microorganisms respond differently or in the same way to climate change. Here, we review the results of 135 studies investigating the effects of climate change factors on beneficial microorganisms and their interaction with host plants. The majority of studies showed that elevated CO(2) had a positive influence on the abundance of arbuscular and ectomycorrhizal fungi, whereas the effects on plant growth-promoting bacteria and endophytic fungi were more variable. In most cases, plant-associated microorganisms had a beneficial effect on plants under elevated CO(2). The effects of increased temperature on beneficial plant-associated microorganisms were more variable, positive and neutral, and negative effects were equally common and varied considerably with the study system and the temperature range investigated. Moreover, numerous studies indicated that plant growth-promoting microorganisms (both bacteria and fungi) positively affected plants subjected to drought stress. Overall, this review shows that plant-associated microorganisms are an important factor influencing the response of plants to climate change.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19557441/
19557441
We investigated the ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal colonization status of Pinus thunbergii mature trees and regenerating seedlings varying in age in coastal pine forests on the east coast of Korea. We established one 20 x 20-m plot at each of two study sites at P. thunbergii coastal forests in Samcheok. Fifty soil blocks (5 x 5 x 15 cm) were sampled at regular intervals, and ten P. thunbergii seedlings of age 0, 1-3, 3-5, and 5-10 years were sampled in each study plot. In total of 27 ECM fungal taxa, Cenococcum geophilum was dominant, followed by Russula sp., Sebacina sp., and unidentified Cortinuris sp. in mature trees. In 0-year-old seedlings, some fungal species such as Sebacina sp., C. geophilum, and unidentified Cortinarius sp. were dominant whereas only C. geophilum was dominant after 1 year, and there were no apparent succession patterns in ECM fungal compositions beyond a host age of 1 year. Most ECM fungal taxa that had colonized seedlings of each age class were also observed in roots of mature trees in each site. These taxa accounted for 86.7-100% and 96.4-98.4% of ECM abundance in seedlings and mature trees, respectively. The results indicate that the species composition of ECM fungal taxa colonizing seedlings of different age in forests is similar to that of surrounding mature trees. Our results also showed that C. geophilum is a common and dominant ECM fungus in P. thunbergii coastal forests and might play a significant role in their regeneration.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17504467/
17504467
Quercus woodlands are key components of California's wild landscapes, yet little is known about ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi in these ecosystems. We examined the EM community associated with Quercus douglasii using sporocarp surveys and by pooling EM roots and subjecting them to DNA extraction, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), cloning, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) screening and DNA sequencing. Ectomycorrhizal root symbionts were sampled four times in 2003-04. During this time, the below-ground community structure was relatively stable; we found no evidence of taxa adapted to winter or spring conditions and only one species varied widely in occurrence between years. The EM community from sporocarps and roots was diverse (161 species), rich in Ascomycota (46 species), and dominated by fungi with cryptic sporocarps. This included a large number of resupinate and hypogeous taxa, many of which were detected both above- and below-ground.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31911594/
31911594
Community assembly of crop-associated fungi is thought to be strongly influenced by deterministic selection exerted by the plant host, rather than stochastic processes. Here we use a simple, sorghum system with abundant sampling to show that stochastic forces (drift or stochastic dispersal) act on fungal community assembly in leaves and roots early in host development and when sorghum is drought stressed, conditions when mycobiomes are small. Unexpectedly, we find no signal for stochasticity when drought stress is relieved, likely due to renewed selection by the host. In our experimental system, the host compartment exerts the strongest effects on mycobiome assembly, followed by the timing of plant development and lastly by plant genotype. Using a dissimilarity-overlap approach, we find a universality in the forces of community assembly of the mycobiomes of the different sorghum compartments and in functional guilds of fungi.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30464767/
30464767
Droughts strongly affect carbon and nitrogen cycling in grasslands, with consequences for ecosystem productivity. Therefore, we investigated how experimental grassland communities interact with groups of soil microorganisms. In particular, we explored the mechanisms of the drought-induced decoupling of plant photosynthesis and microbial carbon cycling and its recovery after rewetting. Our aim was to better understand how root exudation during drought is linked to pulses of soil microbial activity and changes in plant nitrogen uptake after rewetting. We set up a mesocosm experiment on a meadow site and used shelters to simulate drought. We performed two 13C-CO2 pulse labelings, the first at peak drought and the second in the recovery phase, and traced the flow of assimilates into the carbohydrates of plants and the water extractable organic carbon and microorganisms from the soil. Total microbial tracer uptake in the main metabolism was estimated by chloroform fumigation extraction, whereas the lipid biomarkers were used to assess differences between the microbial groups. Drought led to a reduction of aboveground versus belowground plant growth and to an increase of 13C tracer contents in the carbohydrates, particularly in the roots. Newly assimilated 13C tracer unexpectedly accumulated in the water-extractable soil organic carbon, indicating that root exudation continued during the drought. In contrast, drought strongly reduced the amount of 13C tracer assimilated into the soil microorganisms. This reduction was more severe in the growth-related lipid biomarkers than in the metabolic compounds, suggesting a slowdown of microbial processes at peak drought. Shortly after rewetting, the tracer accumulation in the belowground plant carbohydrates and in the water-extractable soil organic carbon disappeared. Interestingly, this disappearance was paralleled by a quick recovery of the carbon uptake into metabolic and growth-related compounds from the rhizospheric microorganisms, which was probably related to the higher nitrogen supply to the plant shoots. We conclude that the decoupling of plant photosynthesis and soil microbial carbon cycling during drought is due to reduced carbon uptake and metabolic turnover of rhizospheric soil microorganisms. Moreover, our study suggests that the maintenance of root exudation during drought is connected to a fast reinitiation of soil microbial activity after rewetting, supporting plant recovery through increased nitrogen availability.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31218693/
31218693
Root exudates play an important role in ecosystem response to climate change, but the functional consequences of drought-induced changes in the quality of root exudates are unknown. Here, we addressed this knowledge gap in a unique experimental approach. We subjected two common grassland species that differ widely in their growth strategies and root systems, the grass Holcus lanatus and the forb Rumex acetosa, to 2 wk of drought. We collected root exudates and soils at the end of the drought and after 2 wk of recovery and readded all root exudates to all soils in a fully reciprocal set-up to measure root-exudate-induced respiration. We found that soil treatment was unimportant for determining root-exudate-induced respiration. By contrast, root exudates collected from plants that had experienced drought clearly triggered more soil respiration than exudates from undroughted plants. Importantly, this increased respiration compensated for the lower rates of root exudation in droughted plants. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism through which drought can continue to affect ecosystem carbon cycling, and a potential plant strategy to facilitate regrowth through stimulating microbial activity. These findings have important implications for understanding plant and ecosystem response to drought.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23239372/
23239372
Soil microorganisms with potential for alleviation of abiotic stresses in combination with plant growth promotion would be extremely useful tools in sustainable agriculture. To this end, the present study was initiated where forty-five salt tolerant bacterial isolates with ability to grow in high salt medium were obtained from the rhizosphere of Triticum aestivum and Imperata cylindrica. These bacteria were tested for plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria traits in vitro such as phosphate solubilization, siderophore, ACC deaminase and IAA production. Of the forty-five isolates, W10 from wheat rhizosphere and IP8 from blady grass rhizosphere, which tested positive in all the tests were identified by morpholological, biochemical and 16SrDNA sequencing as Bacillus safensis and Ochrobactrum pseudogregnonense respectively and selected for in vivo studies. Both the bacteria could promote growth in six varieties of wheat tested in terms of increase in root and shoot biomass, height of plants, yield, as well as increase in chlorophyll content. Besides, the wheat plants could withstand water stress more efficiently in presence of the bacteria as indicated by delay in appearance of wilting symptoms increases in relative water content of treated water stressed plants in comparison to untreated stressed ones, and elevated antioxidant responses. Enhanced antioxidant responses were evident as elevated activities of enzymes such as catalase, peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase, superoxide dismutase and glutathione reductase as well as increased accumulation of antioxidants such as carotenoids and ascorbate. Results clearly indicate that the ability of wheat plants to withstand water stress is enhanced by application of these bacteria which also function as plant growth promoting rhizobacteria.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24796562/
24796562
Production of phytohormones is one of the main mechanisms to explain the beneficial effects of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) such as Azospirillum sp. The PGPRs induce plant growth and development, and reduce stress susceptibility. However, little is known regarding the stress-related phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) produced by bacteria. We investigated the effects of Azospirillum brasilense Sp 245 strain on Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 and aba2-1 mutant plants, evaluating the morphophysiological and biochemical responses when watered and in drought. We used an in vitro-grown system to study changes in the root volume and architecture after inoculation with Azospirillum in Arabidopsis wild-type Col-0 and on the mutant aba2-1, during early growth. To examine Arabidopsis development and reproductive success as affected by the bacteria, ABA and drought, a pot experiment using Arabidopsis Col-0 plants was also carried out. Azospirillum brasilense augmented plant biomass, altered root architecture by increasing lateral roots number, stimulated photosynthetic and photoprotective pigments and retarded water loss in correlation with incremented ABA levels. As well, inoculation improved plants seed yield, plants survival, proline levels and relative leaf water content; it also decreased stomatal conductance, malondialdehyde and relative soil water content in plants submitted to drought. Arabidopsis inoculation with A. brasilense improved plants performance, especially in drought.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30916398/
30916398
Studies have suggested that increased root hydraulic conductivity in mycorrhizal roots could be the result of increased cell-to-cell water flux via aquaporins. This study aimed to elucidate if the key effect of the regulation of maize aquaporins by the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis is the enhancement of root cell water transport capacity. Thus, water permeability coefficient (Pf ) and cell hydraulic conductivity (Lpc ) were measured in root protoplast and intact cortex cells of AM and non-AM plants subjected or not to water stress. Results showed that cells from droughted-AM roots maintained Pf and Lpc values of nonstressed plants, whereas in non-AM roots, these values declined drastically as a consequence of water deficit. Interestingly, the phosphorylation status of PIP2 aquaporins increased in AM plants subjected to water deficit, and Pf values higher than 12 μm s-1 were found only in protoplasts from AM roots, revealing the higher water permeability of AM root cells. In parallel, the AM symbiosis increased stomatal conductance, net photosynthesis, and related parameters, showing a higher photosynthetic capacity in these plants. This study demonstrates a better performance of AM root cells in water transport under water deficit, which is connected to the shoot physiological performance in terms of photosynthetic capacity.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34791424/
34791424
Rice (Oryza sativa) was domesticated around 10,000 years ago and has developed into a staple for half of humanity. The crop evolved and is currently grown in stably wet and intermittently dry agro-ecosystems, but patterns of adaptation to differences in water availability remain poorly understood. While previous field studies have evaluated plant developmental adaptations to water deficit, adaptive variation in functional and hydraulic components, particularly in relation to gene expression, has received less attention. Here, we take an evolutionary systems biology approach to characterize adaptive drought resistance traits across roots and shoots. We find that rice harbors heritable variation in molecular, physiological, and morphological traits that is linked to higher fitness under drought. We identify modules of co-expressed genes that are associated with adaptive drought avoidance and tolerance mechanisms. These expression modules showed evidence of polygenic adaptation in rice subgroups harboring accessions that evolved in drought-prone agro-ecosystems. Fitness-linked expression patterns allowed us to identify the drought-adaptive nature of optimizing photosynthesis and interactions with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Taken together, our study provides an unprecedented, integrative view of rice adaptation to water-limited field conditions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30183106/
30183106
Drought stress not only effect the population and activities of microorganisms inhabiting the rhizosphere but also various physiological and biochemical process in plants that is, photosynthesis, respiration, translocation, uptake of ions, carbohydrates, and nutrient metabolism. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and their exopolysaccharides (EPS) showed profound effects on plant growth and drought tolerance. Reactions of bacteria to drought stress at various organizational levels are different which depends on intensity of stress, duration, species, and growth stage. PGPR could be effectively utilized in developing strategies to facilitate water conservation strategies of plants. They have the ability to improve plant growth directly by enhancing level of phytohormones, siderophore, biofilm, and exopolysaccharides production and by increasing the nutrient availability in the rhizosphere or indirectly by protecting plants from pathogen attack. EPS producing bacteria are capable to maintain higher soil moisture content and growth of plants even under severe dried sandy soils. The evidence of survival of rhizobacteria under low moisture content obtained from the fact of rhizobacterial occurrence in the soil of desert and effective nodule formation in desert soil. Beside this, EPS produced by PGPR form rhizosheath around the roots and thus protect the plant roots from desiccation for a longer period of time. Important role exhibited by exopolysaccharides includes, protection from desiccation, microbial aggregation, plant-microbe interaction, surface attachment, bioremediation and its use by many industries for stabilizing, thickening, coagulating, gelling, suspending and for film forming. Plants inoculated with EPS-producing bacteria showed higher accumulation of proline, sugars, and free amino acids under water deficit stress. Biofilms formed by the PGPR around the roots are made up of bacterial populations or bacterial communities that encased inside the polymeric extracellular matrix formed by bacteria itself, they adhered to the external surfaces that contain sufficient moisture. It is concluded that the application of PGPR in combination with their EPS is a promising measure to combat drought stress thus, increasing global food security.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26340934/
26340934
Fungal polysaccharides (PSs) are the subject of research in many fields of science and industry. Many properties of PSs have already been confirmed and the list of postulated functions continues to grow. Fungal PSs are classified into different groups according to systematic affinity, structure (linear and branched), sugar composition (homo- and heteropolysaccharides), type of bonds between the monomers (β-(1 → 3), β-(1 → 6), and α-(1 → 3)) and their location in the cell (cell wall PSs, exoPSs, and endoPSs). Exopolysaccharides (EPSs) are most frequently studied fungal PSs but their definition, classification, and origin are still not clear and should be explained. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota fungi producing EPS have different ecological positions (saprotrophic and endophytic, pathogenic or symbiotic-mycorrhizae fungi); therefore, EPSs play different biological functions, for example in the protection against environmental stress factors and in interactions with other organisms. EPSs obtained from Ascomycota and Basidiomycota fungal cultures are known for their antioxidant, immunostimulating, antitumor, and antimicrobial properties. The major objective of the presented review article was to provide a detailed description of the state-of-the-art knowledge of the effectiveness of EPS production by filamentous and yeast Ascomycota and Basidiomycota fungi and techniques of derivation of EPSs, their biochemical characteristics, and biological properties allowing comprehensive analysis as well as indication of similarities and differences between these fungal groups. Understanding the role of EPSs in a variety of processes and their application in food or pharmaceutical industries requires improvement of the techniques of their derivation, purification, and characterization. The detailed analyses of data concerning the derivation and application of Ascomycota and Basidiomycota EPSs can facilitate development and trace the direction of application of these EPSs in different branches of industry, agriculture, and medicine.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26305264/
26305264
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis alleviates drought stress in plants. However, the intimate mechanisms involved, as well as its effect on the production of signalling molecules associated with the host plant-AM fungus interaction remains largely unknown. In the present work, the effects of drought on lettuce and tomato plant performance and hormone levels were investigated in non-AM and AM plants. Three different water regimes were applied, and their effects were analysed over time. AM plants showed an improved growth rate and efficiency of photosystem II than non-AM plants under drought from very early stages of plant colonization. The levels of the phytohormone abscisic acid, as well as the expression of the corresponding marker genes, were influenced by drought stress in non-AM and AM plants. The levels of strigolactones and the expression of corresponding marker genes were affected by both AM symbiosis and drought. The results suggest that AM symbiosis alleviates drought stress by altering the hormonal profiles and affecting plant physiology in the host plant. In addition, a correlation between AM root colonization, strigolactone levels and drought severity is shown, suggesting that under these unfavourable conditions, plants might increase strigolactone production in order to promote symbiosis establishment to cope with the stress.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25382456/
25382456
Plants rapidly release photoassimilated carbon (C) to the soil via direct root exudation and associated mycorrhizal fungi, with both pathways promoting plant nutrient availability. This study aimed to explore these pathways from the root's vascular bundle to soil microbial communities. Using nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (NanoSIMS) imaging and (13) C-phospho- and neutral lipid fatty acids, we traced in-situ flows of recently photoassimilated C of (13) CO2 -exposed wheat (Triticum aestivum) through arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) into root- and hyphae-associated soil microbial communities. Intraradical hyphae of AM fungi were significantly (13) C-enriched compared to other root-cortex areas after 8 h of labelling. Immature fine root areas close to the root tip, where AM features were absent, showed signs of passive C loss and co-location of photoassimilates with nitrogen taken up from the soil solution. A significant and exclusively fresh proportion of (13) C-photosynthates was delivered through the AM pathway and was utilised by different microbial groups compared to C directly released by roots. Our results indicate that a major release of recent photosynthates into soil leave plant roots via AM intraradical hyphae already upstream of passive root exudations. AM fungi may act as a rapid hub for translocating fresh plant C to soil microbes.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17535297/
17535297
Plant root systems colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi have previously been shown to influence soil bacterial populations; however, the direct influence of the AM extraradical mycelium itself on bacterial growth and community composition is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of exudates produced by AM extraradical mycelia on the growth and development of an extracted soil bacterial community in vitro. The chemical composition of the mycelial exudates was analysed using proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry. Following the addition of exudates to a bacterial community extracted from soil, bacterial growth and vitality were determined using a bacterial vitality stain and fluorescence microscopy. Changes in community composition were also analysed at various times over the course of 3 days by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, in combination with cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Mycelial exudates increased bacterial growth and vitality and changed bacterial community composition. Several Gammaproteobacteria, including a taxon within the Enterobacteriaceae, increased in frequency of occurrence in response to AM mycelial exudates. This study is the first attempt to identify carbohydrates from the extraradical mycelium of an AM fungus, and demonstrates the direct effects of mycelial exudates on a soil bacterial community.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28589950/
28589950
Fungal-bacterial interactions are highly diverse and contribute to many ecosystem processes. Their emergence under common environmental stress scenarios however, remains elusive. Here we use a synthetic microbial ecosystem based on the germination of Bacillus subtilis spores to examine whether fungal and fungal-like (oomycete) mycelia reduce bacterial water and nutrient stress in an otherwise dry and nutrient-poor microhabitat. We find that the presence of mycelia enables the germination and subsequent growth of bacterial spores near the hyphae. Using a combination of time of flight- and nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF- and nanoSIMS) coupled with stable isotope labelling, we link spore germination to hyphal transfer of water, carbon and nitrogen. Our study provides direct experimental evidence for the stimulation of bacterial activity by mycelial supply of scarce resources in dry and nutrient-free environments. We propose that mycelia may stimulate bacterial activity and thus contribute to sustaining ecosystem functioning in stressed habitats.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26205171/
26205171
Salinity is one of the major abiotic factors threatening food security worldwide. Recently, our understanding of early processes underlying salinity tolerance has expanded. In this review, early signaling events, such as phospholipid signaling, calcium ion (Ca(2+)) responses, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, together with salt stress-induced abscisic acid (ABA) accumulation, are brought into the context of long-term salt stress-specific responses and alteration of plant growth. Salt-induced quiescent and recovery growth phases rely on modification of cell cycle activity, cell expansion, and cell wall extensibility. The period of initial growth arrest varies among different organs, leading to altered plant morphology. Studying stress-induced changes in growth dynamics can be used for screening to discover novel genes contributing to salt stress tolerance in model species and crops.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18444910/
18444910
The physiological and molecular mechanisms of tolerance to osmotic and ionic components of salinity stress are reviewed at the cellular, organ, and whole-plant level. Plant growth responds to salinity in two phases: a rapid, osmotic phase that inhibits growth of young leaves, and a slower, ionic phase that accelerates senescence of mature leaves. Plant adaptations to salinity are of three distinct types: osmotic stress tolerance, Na(+) or Cl() exclusion, and the tolerance of tissue to accumulated Na(+) or Cl(). Our understanding of the role of the HKT gene family in Na(+) exclusion from leaves is increasing, as is the understanding of the molecular bases for many other transport processes at the cellular level. However, we have a limited molecular understanding of the overall control of Na(+) accumulation and of osmotic stress tolerance at the whole-plant level. Molecular genetics and functional genomics provide a new opportunity to synthesize molecular and physiological knowledge to improve the salinity tolerance of plants relevant to food production and environmental sustainability.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30078434/
30078434
Plants are constantly releasing root exudates to the rhizosphere. These compounds are responsible for different (positive or negative) interactions with other organisms, including plants, fungi or bacteria. In this work, the effect of root exudates obtained from in vitro cultured citrus plants on two rhizobacteria (Pseudomonas putida KT2440 and Novosphingobium sp. HR1a) was evaluated. Root exudates were obtained from two citrus genotypes differing in their sensitivity to salt and heat stress and differentially affected the growth of both rhizobacteria. Root exudates from salt-stressed plants of C. macrophylla (salt tolerant) induced an increase in bacterial growth higher than that obtained from Carrizo citrange exudates (salt sensitive). Root exudates from heat-stressed plants also had a positive effect on bacterial growth, which was more evident in the heat-sensitive C. macrophylla. These results reveal that the growth of these rhizobacteria can be modulated through citrus root exudates and can change depending on both the stress conditions as well as the genotype. Biosensors P. putida KT2442 (pMIS5) and Novosphingobium sp. HR1a (pPAH) were used to test the presence of proline and salicylates in root exudates by measuring β-galactosidase activity. This activity increased in the presence of root exudates obtained from stressed plants to a higher extent in the case of exudates obtained from the genotype resistant to each particular stress, indicating that those root exudates contain larger quantities of proline and salicylates, as it has been described previously. Our data reveals that both P. putida KT2442 (pMIS5) and Novosphingobium sp. HR1a (pPAH), could be used as biosensors of plant stress.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33875820/
33875820
Salinity is a major abiotic stress threatening crop production. Root-derived bacteria (RDB) are hypothesized to play a role in enhancing plant adaptability to various stresses. However, it is still unclear whether and how plants build up specific RDB when challenged by salinity. In this study, we measured the composition and variation in the rhizosphere and endophyte bacteria of salt-sensitive (SSs) and salt-resistant (SRs) plants under soil conditions with/without salinity. The salt-induced RDB (both rhizobiomes and endophytes) were isolated to examine their effects on the physiological responses of SSs and SRs to salinity challenge. Moreover, we examined whether functional redundancy exists among salt-induced RDB in enhancing plant adaptability to salt stress. We observed that although SSs and SRs recruited distinct RDB and relevant functions when challenged by salinity, salt-induced recruitment of specific RDB led to a consistent growth promotion in plants regardless of their salinity tolerance capacities. Plants employed a species-specific strategy to recruit beneficial soil bacteria in the rhizosphere rather than in the endosphere. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the consortium, but not individual members of the salt-induced RDB, provided enduring resistance against salt stress. This study confirms the critical role of salt-induced RDB in enhancing plant adaptability to salt stress.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31933013/
31933013
Soil salinity is regarded as severe environmental stress that can change the composition of rhizosphere soil bacterial community and import a plethora of harms to crop plants. However, relatively little is known about the relationship between salt stress and root microbial communities in groundnuts. The goal of this study was to assess the effect of salt stress on groundnut growth performance and rhizosphere microbial community structure. Statistical analysis exhibited that salt stress indeed affected groundnut growth and pod yield. Further taxonomic analysis showed that the bacterial community predominantly consisted of phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Saccharibacteria, Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria, and Cyanobacteria. Among these bacteria, numbers of Cyanobacteria and Acidobacteria mainly increased, while that of Actinobacteria and Chloroflexi decreased after salt treatment via taxonomic and qPCR analysis. Moreover, Sphingomonas and Microcoleus as the predominant genera in salt-treated rhizosphere soils might enhance salt tolerance as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria. Metagenomic profiling showed that series of sequences related to signaling transduction, posttranslational modification, and chaperones were enriched in the salt-treated soils, which may have implications for plant survival and salt tolerance. These data will help us better understand the symbiotic relationship between the dominant microbial community and groundnuts and form the foundation for further improvement of salt tolerance of groundnuts via modification of soil microbial community.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27391592/
27391592
In addition to being a forage crop, Caliph medic (Medicago truncatula) is also a model legume plant and is used for research focusing on the molecular characterization of the interaction between rhizobia and plants. However, the endophytic microbiome in this plant is poorly defined. Endophytic bacteria play a role in supplying plants with the basic requirements necessary for growth and development. Moreover, these bacteria also play a role in the mechanism of salinity stress adaptation in plants. As a prelude to the isolation and utilization of these bacteria in Caliph medic farming, 41 bacterial OTUs were identified in this project from within the interior of the roots of this plant by pyrosequencing of the small ribosomal subunit gene (16S rDNA) using a cultivation-independent approach. In addition, the differential abundance of these bacteria was studied following exposure of the plants to salinity stress. About 29,064 high-quality reads were obtained from the sequencing of six libraries prepared from control and salinity-treated tissues. Statistical analysis revealed that the abundance of ~70% of the OTUs was significantly (p ≤ 0.05) altered in roots that were exposed to salinity stress. Sequence analysis showed a similarity between some of the identified species and other, known, growth-promoting bacteria, marine and salt-stressed soil-borne bacteria, and nitrogen-fixing bacterial isolates. Determination of the amendments to the bacterial community due to salinity stress in Caliph medic provides a crucial step toward developing an understanding of the association of these endophytes, under salt stress conditions, in this model plant. To provide direct evidence regarding their growth promoting activity, a group of endophytic bacteria were isolated from inside of plant roots using a cultivation-dependent approach. Several of these isolates were able to produce ACC-deaminase, ammonia and IAA; and to solubilize Zn+2 and PO4-3. This data is consistent with the predicted occurrence (based on cultivation-independent techniques) of these bacteria and provides some insight into the importance of the endophytic bacteria in Caliph medic when grown under normal and saline conditions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33713892/
33713892
Reminiscent to the microbiota-gut-brain axis described in animals, recent advances indicate that plants can take advantage of belowground microbial commensals to orchestrate aboveground stress responses. Integration of plant responses to microbial cues belowground and environmental cues aboveground emerges as a mechanism that promotes stress tolerance in plants. Using recent examples obtained from reductionist and community-level approaches, we discuss the extent to which perception of aboveground biotic and abiotic stresses can cascade along the shoot-root axis to sculpt root microbiota assembly and modulate the growth of root commensals that bolster aboveground stress tolerance. We propose that host modulation of microbiota-root-shoot circuits contributes to phenotypic plasticity and decision-making in plants, thereby promoting adaptation to rapidly changing environmental conditions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30674663/
30674663
In nature, plants must respond to multiple stresses simultaneously, which likely demands cross-talk between stress-response pathways to minimize fitness costs. Here we provide genetic evidence that biotic and abiotic stress responses are differentially prioritized in Arabidopsis thaliana leaves of different ages to maintain growth and reproduction under combined biotic and abiotic stresses. Abiotic stresses, such as high salinity and drought, blunted immune responses in older rosette leaves through the phytohormone abscisic acid signaling, whereas this antagonistic effect was blocked in younger rosette leaves by PBS3, a signaling component of the defense phytohormone salicylic acid. Plants lacking PBS3 exhibited enhanced abiotic stress tolerance at the cost of decreased fitness under combined biotic and abiotic stresses. Together with this role, PBS3 is also indispensable for the establishment of salt stress- and leaf age-dependent phyllosphere bacterial communities. Collectively, our work reveals a mechanism that balances trade-offs upon conflicting stresses at the organism level and identifies a genetic intersection among plant immunity, leaf microbiota, and abiotic stress tolerance.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25339966/
25339966
Soil salinity is an increasingly serious problem worldwide that reduces agricultural output potential. Selected beneficial soil bacteria can promote plant growth and augment tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Bacillus subtilis strain GB03 has been shown to confer growth promotion and abiotic stress tolerance in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Here we examined the effect of this beneficial soil bacterium on salt tolerance in the legume forage crop, white clover. Plants of white clover (Trifolium repens L. cultivar Huia) were grown from seeds with or without soil inoculation of the beneficial soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis GB03 supplemented with 0, 50, 100, or 150 mM NaCl water into soil. Growth parameters, chlorophyll content, malondialdehyde (MDA) content and osmotic potential were monitored during the growth cycle. Endogenous Na(+) and K(+) contents were determined at the time of harvest. White clover plants grown in GB03-inoculated soil were significantly larger than non-inoculated controls with respect to shoot height, root length, plant biomass, leaf area and chlorophyll content; leaf MDA content under saline condition and leaf osmotic potential under severe salinity condition (150 mM NaCl) were significantly decreased. Furthermore, GB03 significantly decreased shoot and root Na(+) accumulation and thereby improved K(+)/Na(+) ratio when GB03-inoculated plants were grown under elevated salt conditions. The results indicate that soil inoculation with GB03 promotes white clover growth under both non-saline and saline conditions by directly or indirectly regulating plant chlorophyll content, leaf osmotic potential, cell membrane integrity and ion accumulation.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21387925/
21387925
Effectof exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced by a consortium of cyanobacteria on germination of three crops wheat, maize and rice was studied at different salt concentrations. Production of EPS was found to be stimulated by salts, which in turn had a significant Na+ removal capability from aqueous solution. Seed germination, vigor index and mobilization efficiency in all the three crops remarkably improved when cyanobacterial EPS was applied. While germination improved significantly by 13 to 30%, mobilization efficiency increased marginally by 1.03 to 1.1 times and vigor index increased by 1.15 to 2.4 times in these crops in response to EPS under non-saline conditions. Salinity had an inhibitory effect on seed germination of all the species showing 18 to 54% reduction. However, in the presence of EPS, the salt induced inhibition diminished to 13 to 18%. Inhibitory effect of salt on chlorophyll concentration, vigor index and mobilization efficiency of the seedlings was much less in these crops in the presence of EPS, indicating the latter's role in salt stress alleviation.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25439902/
25439902
Removal of Na(+) by binding with exopolymeric substances (EPS) from Rhodopseudomonas palustris TN114 and PP803 was investigated. The moderate negative correlation pairs (rp) between remaining Alcian blue and amount of Na(+) adsorbed on EPS from strains TN114 and PP803 were -0.652 and -0.609. Both strains showed positive relationships between the amounts of EPS produced and bacterial growth. EPS from strain PP803 had a higher efficiency in removing Na(+) than the EPS from strain TN114 based on their EC50 values (1.79 and 1.49 mg/mL for TN114 and PP803, respectively). The principal component from EPS of strain PP803 which was responsible for salt removal was purified and it was identified as a polysaccharide (≈18 kDa) mainly composed of galacturonic acid. Overall results suggested that EPS is a key factor that our strains used to bind Na(+) allowing their survival in high NaCl concentrations.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32097862/
32097862
Salinity in agricultural soil is a major problem around the world, with negative consequences for the growth and production of a wide range of crops. To counteract these harmful effects, plants sometimes have bacterial partners that contain the enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase, which acts by degrading ACC (the precursor of ethylene in all higher plants). The enzymatic activity of ACC deaminase results in the production of α-ketobutyrate and ammonia, which, by lowering ACC levels, prevents excessive increases in the synthesis of ethylene under various stress conditions and is one of the most efficient mechanisms to induce plant tolerance to salt stress. In the present review, recent works on the role of ACC deaminase are discussed alongside its importance in promoting plant growth under conditions of salt stress in endophytic and rhizospheric bacteria, with some emphasis on Bacillus species. In addition, the toxic effects of soil salinity on plants and microbial biodiversity are analysed. Recent findings on the synergetic functioning of ACC deaminase and other bacterial mechanisms of salt stress tolerance, such as trehalose accumulation, are also summarized. Finally, we discuss the various advantages of ACC deaminase-producing bacilli as bioinoculants to address the problem of salinity in agricultural soils.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26441873/
26441873
1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase (ACCD), a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme, is widespread in diverse bacterial and fungal species. Owing to ACCD activity, certain plant associated bacteria help plant to grow under biotic and abiotic stresses by decreasing the level of "stress ethylene" which is inhibitory to plant growth. ACCD breaks down ACC, an immediate precursor of ethylene, to ammonia and α-ketobutyrate, which can be further metabolized by bacteria for their growth. ACC deaminase is an inducible enzyme whose synthesis is induced in the presence of its substrate ACC. This enzyme encoded by gene AcdS is under tight regulation and regulated differentially under different environmental conditions. Regulatory elements of gene AcdS are comprised of the regulatory gene encoding LRP protein and other regulatory elements which are activated differentially under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The role of some additional regulatory genes such as AcdB or LysR may also be required for expression of AcdS. Phylogenetic analysis of AcdS has revealed that distribution of this gene among different bacteria might have resulted from vertical gene transfer with occasional horizontal gene transfer (HGT). Application of bacterial AcdS gene has been extended by developing transgenic plants with ACCD gene which showed increased tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. Moreover, distribution of ACCD gene or its homolog's in a wide range of species belonging to all three domains indicate an alternative role of ACCD in the physiology of an organism. Therefore, this review is an attempt to explore current knowledge of bacterial ACC deaminase mediated physiological effects in plants, mode of enzyme action, genetics, distribution among different species, ecological role of ACCD and, future research avenues to develop transgenic plants expressing foreign AcdS gene to cope with biotic and abiotic stressors. Systemic identification of regulatory circuits would be highly valuable to express the gene under diverse environmental conditions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29554117/
29554117
Several plant species require microbial associations for survival under different biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, we show that Enterobacter sp. SA187, a desert plant endophytic bacterium, enhances yield of the crop plant alfalfa under field conditions as well as growth of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana in vitro, revealing a high potential of SA187 as a biological solution for improving crop production. Studying the SA187 interaction with Arabidopsis, we uncovered a number of mechanisms related to the beneficial association of SA187 with plants. SA187 colonizes both the surface and inner tissues of Arabidopsis roots and shoots. SA187 induces salt stress tolerance by production of bacterial 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyric acid (KMBA), known to be converted into ethylene. By transcriptomic, genetic and pharmacological analyses, we show that the ethylene signaling pathway, but not plant ethylene production, is required for KMBA-induced plant salt stress tolerance. These results reveal a novel molecular communication process during the beneficial microbe-induced plant stress tolerance.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34772809/
34772809
Enterobacter sp. SA187 is a root endophytic bacterium that maintains growth and yield of plants under abiotic stress conditions. In this work, we compared the metabolic wirings of Arabidopsis and SA187 in the free-living and endophytic interaction states. The interaction of SA187 with Arabidopsis induced massive changes in bacterial gene expression for chemotaxis, flagellar biosynthesis, quorum sensing, and biofilm formation. Besides modification of the bacterial carbon and energy metabolism, various nutrient and metabolite transporters and the entire sulfur pathway were up-regulated. Under salt stress, Arabidopsis resembled plants under sulfate starvation but not when colonized by SA187, which reprogramed the sulfur regulon of Arabidopsis. In accordance, salt hypersensitivity of multiple Arabidopsis sulfur metabolism mutants was partially or completely rescued by SA187 as much as by the addition of sulfate, L-cysteine, or L-methionine. Many components of the sulfur metabolism that are localized in the chloroplast were partially rescued by SA187. Finally, salt-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species as well as the hypersensitivity of LSU mutants were suppressed by SA187. LSUs encode a central regulator linking sulfur metabolism to chloroplast superoxide dismutase activity. The coordinated regulation of the sulfur metabolic pathways in both the beneficial microorganism and the host plant is required for salt stress tolerance in Arabidopsis and might be a common mechanism utilized by different beneficial microbes to mitigate the harmful effects of different abiotic stresses on plants.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20383767/
20383767
Endophytic bacterial strains SF2 (99.9% homology with Achromobacter xylosoxidans), and SF3 and SF4 (99.9% homology with Bacillus pumilus) isolated from sunflower grown under irrigation or drought were selected on the basis of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) characteristics. Aims of the study were to examine effects of inoculation with SF2, SF3, and SF4 on sunflower cultivated under water stress, to evaluate salicylic acid (SA) production by these strains in control medium or at Ψa = -2.03 MPa, and to analyze effects of exogenously applied SA, jasmonic acid (JA), bacterial pellets, and bacterial supernatants on growth of pathogenic fungi Alternaria sp., Sclerotinia sp., and Verticillum sp. Growth response to bacterial inoculation was studied in two inbred lines (water stress-sensitive B59 and water stress-tolerant B71) and commercial hybrid Paraiso 24. Under both water stress and normal conditions, plant growth following inoculation was more strongly enhanced for Paraiso 24 and B71 than for B59. All three strains produced SA in control medium; levels for SF3 and SF4 were higher than for SF2. SA production was dramatically higher at Ψa = -2.03 MPa. Exogenously applied SA or JA caused a significant reduction of growth for Sclerotinia and a lesser reduction for Alternaria and Verticillum. Fungal growth was more strongly inhibited by bacterial pellets than by bacterial supernatants. Our findings indicate that these endophytic bacteria enhance growth of sunflower seedlings under water stress, produce SA, and inhibit growth of pathogenic fungi. These characteristics are useful for formulation of inoculants to improve growth and yield of sunflower crops.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29163398/
29163398
Plants are subjected to various abiotic stresses, such as drought, extreme temperature, salinity, and heavy metals. Abiotic stresses have negative impact on the physiology and morphology of plants through defects in the genetic regulation of cellular pathways. Plants employ several tolerance mechanisms and pathways to avert the effects of stresses that are triggered whenever alterations in metabolism are encountered. Phytohormones are among the most important growth regulators; they are known for having a prominent impact on plant metabolism, and additionally, they play a vital role in the stimulation of plant defense response mechanisms against stresses. Exogenous phytohormone supplementation has been adopted to improve growth and metabolism under stress conditions. Recent investigations have shown that phytohormones produced by root-associated microbes may prove to be important metabolic engineering targets for inducing host tolerance to abiotic stresses. Phytohormone biosynthetic pathways have been identified using several genetic and biochemical methods, and numerous reviews are currently available on this topic. Here, we review current knowledge on the function of phytohormones involved in the improvement of abiotic stress tolerance and defense response in plants exposed to different stressors. We focus on recent successes in identifying the roles of microbial phytohormones that induce stress tolerance, especially in crop plants. In doing so, this review highlights important plant morpho-physiological traits that can be exploited to identify the positive effects of phytohormones on stress tolerance. This review will therefore be helpful to plant physiologists and agricultural microbiologists in designing strategies and tools for the development of broad spectrum microbial inoculants supporting sustainable crop production under hostile environments.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23334657/
23334657
The influence of the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, Glomus fasciculatum, on the growth, heat stress responses and the antioxidative activity in cyclamen (Cyclamen persicum Mill.) plants was studied. Cyclamen plants (inoculated or not with the AM fungus) were placed in a commercial potting media at 17-20 °C for 12 weeks in a greenhouse and subsequently subjected to two temperature conditions in a growth chamber. Initially, plants were grown at 20 °C for 4 weeks as a no heat stress (HS-) condition, followed by 30 °C for another 4 weeks as a heat stress (HS+) condition. Different morphological and physiological growth parameters were compared between G. fasciculatum-inoculated and noninoculated plants. The mycorrhizal symbiosis markedly enhanced biomass production and HS + responses in plants compared to that in the controls. A severe rate of leaf browning (80-100%) was observed in control plants, whereas the mycorrhizal plants showed a minimum rate of leaf browning under HS + conditions. The mycorrhizal plants showed an increase activity of antioxidative enzymes such as superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase, as well as an increase in ascorbic acid and polyphenol contents. The 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity also showed a greater response in mycorrhizal plants than in the control plants under each temperature condition. The results indicate that in cyclamen plants, AM fungal colonisation alleviated heat stress damage through an increased antioxidative activity and that the mycorrhizal symbiosis strongly enhanced temperature stress tolerance which promoted plant growth and increased the host biomass under heat stress.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33426785/
33426785
Global warming has become a critical challenge to food security, causing severe yield losses of major crops worldwide. Conventional and transgenic breeding strategies to enhance plant thermotolerance are laborious and expensive. Therefore, the use of beneficial microbes could be an alternative approach. Here, we report that the root endophyte Enterobacter sp. SA187 induces thermotolerance in wheat in the laboratory as well as in open-field agriculture. To unravel the molecular mechanisms, we used Arabidopsis thaliana as model plant. SA187 reprogramed the Arabidopsis transcriptome via HSFA2-dependent enhancement of H3K4me3 levels at heat stress memory gene loci. Unlike thermopriming, SA187-induced thermotolerance is mediated by ethylene signaling via the transcription factor EIN3. In contrast to the transient chromatin modification by thermopriming, SA187 induces constitutive H3K4me3 modification of heat stress memory genes, generating robust thermotolerance in plants. Importantly, microbial community composition of wheat plants in open-field agriculture is not influenced by SA187, indicating that beneficial microbes can be a powerful tool to enhance thermotolerance of crops in a sustainable manner.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16980419/
16980419
In vitro inoculation of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Chardonnay explants with a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium, Burkholderia phytofirmans strain PsJN, increased grapevine growth and physiological activity at a low temperature. There was a relationship between endophytic bacterial colonization of the grapevine plantlets and their growth at both ambient (26 degrees C) and low (4 degrees C) temperatures and their sensitivities to chilling. The major benefits of bacterization were observed on root growth (11.8- and 10.7-fold increases at 26 degrees C and 4 degrees C, respectively) and plantlet biomass (6- and 2.2-fold increases at 26 degrees C and 4 degrees C, respectively). The inoculation with PsJN also significantly improved plantlet cold tolerance compared to that of the nonbacterized control. In nonchilled plantlets, bacterization enhanced CO(2) fixation and O(2) evolution 1.3 and 2.2 times, respectively. The nonbacterized controls were more sensitive to exposure to low temperatures than were the bacterized plantlets, as indicated by several measured parameters. Moreover, relative to the noninoculated controls, bacterized plantlets had significantly increased levels of starch, proline, and phenolics. These increases correlated with the enhancement of cold tolerance of the grapevine plantlets. In summary, B. phytofirmans strain PsJN inoculation stimulates grapevine growth and improves its ability to withstand cold stress.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32983187/
32983187
Plants teem with microorganisms, whose tremendous diversity and role in plant-microbe interactions are being increasingly explored. Microbial communities create a functional bond with their hosts and express beneficial traits capable of enhancing plant performance. Therefore, a significant task of microbiome research has been identifying novel beneficial microbial traits that can contribute to crop productivity, particularly under adverse environmental conditions. However, although knowledge has exponentially accumulated in recent years, few novel methods regarding the process of designing inoculants for agriculture have been presented. A recently introduced approach is the use of synthetic microbial communities (SynComs), which involves applying concepts from both microbial ecology and genetics to design inoculants. Here, we discuss how to translate this rationale for delivering stable and effective inoculants for agriculture by tailoring SynComs with microorganisms possessing traits for robust colonization, prevalence throughout plant development and specific beneficial functions for plants. Computational methods, including machine learning and artificial intelligence, will leverage the approaches of screening and identifying beneficial microbes while improving the process of determining the best combination of microbes for a desired plant phenotype. We focus on recent advances that deepen our knowledge of plant-microbe interactions and critically discuss the prospect of using microbes to create SynComs capable of enhancing crop resiliency against stressful conditions.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33377117/
33377117
We present a gnotobiotic system for microbiota reconstitution on Arabidopsis thaliana under contrasting iron availability. This system induces iron starvation in plants by providing an unavailable form, mimicking conditions in alkaline soils. Inoculation of taxonomically diverse bacteria reconstitutes plants with a synthetic microbiota, allowing observation of nutrient-dependent interactions with commensals. Experimental optimization, including media composition and preparation of seedlings and bacteria, is discussed. This system provides a framework that can be adapted to study plant-microbiota interactions in further nutritional contexts. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Harbort et al. (2020).

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32528486/
32528486
The rapid developments in the next-generation sequencing methods in the recent years have provided a wealth of information on the community structures and functions of endophytic bacteria. However, the assembly processes of these communities in different plant tissues are still currently poorly understood, especially in wild plants in natural settings. The aim of this study was to compare the composition of endophytic bacterial communities in leaves and roots of arcto-alpine pioneer plant Oxyria digyna, and investigate, how plant tissue (leaf or root) or plant origin affect the community assembly. To address this, we planted micropropagated O. digyna plants with low bacterial load (bait plants) in experimental site with native O. digyna population, in the Low Arctic. The endophytic bacterial community structures in the leaves and roots of the bait plants were analyzed after one growing season and one year in the field, and compared to those of the wild plants growing at the same site. 16S rRNA gene targeted sequencing revealed that endophytic communities in the roots were more diverse than in the leaves, and the diversity in the bait plants increased in the field, and was highest in the wild plants. Both tissue type and plant group had strong impact on the endophytic bacterial community structures. Firmicutes were highly abundant in the leaf communities of both plant types. Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were more abundant in the roots, albeit with different relative abundances in different plant groups. The community structures in the bait plants changed in the field over time, and increasingly resembled the wild plant endophytic communities. This was due to the changes in the relative abundances of several bacterial taxa, as well as species acquisition in the field, but with no species turnover. Several OTUs that were acquired by the bait plants in the field and represent phosphate solubilizing and diazotrophic bacterial taxa, suggesting major role in nutrient acquisition of these bacteria for this nonmycorrhizal plant, thriving in the nutrient poor arctic soils.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17255511/
17255511
A mutualistic association between a fungal endophyte and a tropical panic grass allows both organisms to grow at high soil temperatures. We characterized a virus from this fungus that is involved in the mutualistic interaction. Fungal isolates cured of the virus are unable to confer heat tolerance, but heat tolerance is restored after the virus is reintroduced. The virus-infected fungus confers heat tolerance not only to its native monocot host but also to a eudicot host, which suggests that the underlying mechanism involves pathways conserved between these two groups of plants.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33526695/
33526695
Environmental conditions are an important factor driving pathogens' evolution. Here, we explore the effects of drought stress in plant virus evolution. We evolved turnip mosaic potyvirus in well-watered and drought conditions in Arabidopsis thaliana accessions that differ in their response to virus infection. Virus adaptation occurred in all accessions independently of watering status. Drought-evolved viruses conferred a significantly higher drought tolerance to infected plants. By contrast, nonsignificant increases in tolerance were observed in plants infected with viruses evolved under standard watering. The magnitude of this effect was dependent on the plant accessions. Differences in tolerance were correlated to alterations in the expression of host genes, some involved in regulation of the circadian clock, as well as in deep changes in the balance of phytohormones regulating defense and growth signaling pathways. Our results show that viruses can promote host survival in situations of abiotic stress, with the magnitude of such benefit being a selectable trait.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34726476/
34726476
In plants, a first layer of inducible immunity is conferred by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) that bind microbe- and damage-associated molecular patterns to activate pattern-triggered immunity (PTI). PTI is strengthened or followed by another potent form of immunity when intracellular receptors recognize pathogen effectors, termed effector-triggered immunity. Immunity signaling regulators have been reported to influence abiotic stress responses as well, yet the governing principles and mechanisms remain ambiguous. Here, we report that PRRs of a leucine-rich repeat ectodomain also confer salt tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana, following recognition of cognate ligands such as bacterial flagellin (flg22 epitope) and elongation factor Tu (elf18 epitope), and the endogenous Pep peptides. Pattern-triggered salt tolerance (PTST) requires authentic PTI signaling components; namely, the PRR-associated kinases BAK1 and BIK1 and the NADPH oxidase RBOHD. Exposure to salt stress induces the release of Pep precursors, pointing to the involvement of the endogenous immunogenic peptides in developing plant tolerance to high salinity. Transcriptome profiling reveals an inventory of PTST target genes, which increase or acquire salt responsiveness following a preexposure to immunogenic patterns. In good accordance, plants challenged with nonpathogenic bacteria also acquired salt tolerance in a manner dependent on PRRs. Our findings provide insight into signaling plasticity underlying biotic or abiotic stress cross-tolerance in plants conferred by PRRs.[Formula: see text] Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). This is an open access article distributed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34691142/
34691142
Unraveling the association between microbiome and plant phenotype can illustrate the effect of microbiome on host and then guide the agriculture management. Adequate identification of species and appropriate choice of models are two challenges in microbiome data analysis. Computational models of microbiome data could help in association analysis between the microbiome and plant host. The deep learning methods have been widely used to learn the microbiome data due to their powerful strength of handling the complex, sparse, noisy, and high-dimensional data. Here, we review the analytic strategies in the microbiome data analysis and describe the applications of deep learning models for plant-microbiome correlation studies. We also introduce the application cases of different models in plant-microbiome correlation analysis and discuss how to adapt the models on the critical steps in data processing. From the aspect of data processing manner, model structure, and operating principle, most deep learning models are suitable for the plant microbiome data analysis. The ability of feature representation and pattern recognition is the advantage of deep learning methods in modeling and interpretation for association analysis. Based on published computational experiments, the convolutional neural network and graph neural networks could be recommended for plant microbiome analysis.

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32571217/
32571217
Background: Incidences of heat stress due to the changing global climate can negatively affect the growth and yield of temperature-sensitive crops such as soybean variety, Pungsannamul. Increased temperatures decrease crop productivity by affecting biochemical, physiological, molecular, and morphological factors either individually or in combination with other abiotic stresses. The application of plant growth-promoting endophytic bacteria (PGPEB) offers an ecofriendly approach for improving agriculture crop production and counteracting the negative effects of heat stress. Results: We isolated, screened and identified thermotolerant B. cereus SA1 as a bacterium that could produce biologically active metabolites, such as gibberellin, indole-3-acetic acid, and organic acids. SA1 inoculation improved the biomass, chlorophyll content, and chlorophyll fluorescence of soybean plants under normal and heat stress conditions for 5 and 10 days. Heat stress increased abscisic acid (ABA) and reduced salicylic acid (SA); however, SA1 inoculation markedly reduced ABA and increased SA. Antioxidant analysis results showed that SA1 increased the ascorbic acid peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione contents in soybean plants. In addition, heat stress markedly decreased amino acid contents; however, they were increased with SA1 inoculation. Heat stress for 5 days increased heat shock protein (HSP) expression, and a decrease in GmHSP expression was observed after 10 days; however, SA1 inoculation augmented the heat stress response and increased HSP expression. The stress-responsive GmLAX3 and GmAKT2 were overexpressed in SA1-inoculated plants and may be associated with decreased reactive oxygen species generation, altered auxin and ABA stimuli, and enhanced potassium gradients, which are critical in plants under heat stress. Conclusion: The current findings suggest that B. cereus SA1 could be used as a thermotolerant bacterium for the mitigation of heat stress damage in soybean plants and could be commercialized as a biofertilizer only in case found non-pathogenic.

